How to Make Dal Fry
Cook Dal
1. Rinse your lentils in water for 3 to 4 times. I would recommend using ½ cup tuvar dal (arhar dal or pigeon pea lentils) or ¼ cup each of tuvar dal and masoor dal (pink or orange lentils).
2. After rinsing, pour the lentils into a 2-liter pressure cooker and toss in a pinch of turmeric powder and 1.5 cups of water.

3. Pressure cook the lentils for 9 to 10 minutes on medium heat, or until they are thoroughly cooked and completely soft. Once lentils are cooked, mash them with a spoon or wired whisk, then set aside.
Tip: You can see the consistency of the cooked lentils in the photo below. It is important to note that there should be no separate grains visible.
4. Heat 2 to 3 tablespoons of oil, ghee or unsalted butter in a pan or skillet. Once hot, add ½ or ¾ teaspoon of black mustard seeds.

5. When you hear the mustard seeds start crackling, add 1 teaspoon of cumin seeds and fry them with the mustard seeds for several seconds or until they change color.You should hear the same crackle for the cumin seeds!
6. With the mustard and cumin seeds still in the pan, add ⅓ cup of chopped onions.

7. Sauté the seeds and onion mixture until the onions become translucent or lightly browned.

8. When the onions have lightly browned, add in 1 to 1.5 teaspoons ginger-garlic paste and stir to combine. Sauté the mixture for a few seconds or until the raw aroma of the ginger-garlic goes away on a low heat.
Tip: Make your own paste by combining 1 inch ginger with 3 to 4 medium-sized garlic cloves, crushed to a paste in a mortar-pestle.
9. Finally, add in 10 to 12 curry leaves, 2 to 3 dry red chilies, and 1 to 2 green chilies. Stir to combine with the ginger-garlic paste mixture.
Tip: You can skip the curry leaves if you don’t have them! I always like to add curry leaves, as they add such a nice flavor to the dish
10. Mix well on a low heat, stirring to combine the flavors. 

11.Add all the spice powders and mix again!

½ teaspoon turmeric powder (ground turmeric)
½ teaspoon red chili powder or cayenne or smoked paprika (For a light smoky flavor)
1 to 2 pinches of asafoetida, or hing (Skip if you do not have it.)
spice powders added to kadai
12. After mixing thoroughly, add about ⅓ to ½ cup of finely chopped tomatoes.

tomatoes added
13. Stir together one more time and continue to sauté until the tomatoes become soft and pulpy.

The oil should also start to leave the masala mixture, which is an indication that the onion-tomato base mixture is fully cooked
14.Add your mashed lentils to sautéed onion-tomato masala mixture in the pan or skillet.

added mashed dal to the sautéed tomatoes, onions and spices mixture
15. Combine and mix everything evenly with the rest of the masala mixture.



